.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

# PR Introduction

First of all, thank you for considering to raise a pull request!

Don’t be afraid to ask for advice before working on a contribution. If you’re thinking about a bigger change, especially that might affect the core working or architecture, it’s almost essential to talk and ask about what you’re planning might affect things.  Some of the larger future plans may not be documented well so it’s difficult to understand how your change might affect the general direction and roadmap of this project without asking.

The preferred way to communicate is probably via Discord or GitHub issues.

Helpful information to understand the project can be found here: [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/OliveTin/OliveTin/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.adoc)

^^^ please delete the lines above when raising a PR to keep the request to the bare essentials ^^^

# Checklist
Please put a X in the boxes as evidence of reading through the checklist.

- [ ] I have forked the project, and raised this PR on a feature branch.
- [ ] I ran the `pre-commit` hooks, and my commit message was validated.
- [ ] `make -wC service compile` runs without any issues.
- [ ] `make -wC service codestyle` runs without any issues.
- [ ] `make -wC service unittests` runs without any issues.
- [ ] `make -wC webui codestyle` runs without any issues.
- [ ] `make -w it` runs without any issues.
- [ ] I understand and accept the [AGPL-3.0 license](LICENSE) and [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md), and my contributions fall under these.

Commit message:

doc: Point pull request template to contributors guide

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

# PR Introduction

First of all, thank you for considering to raise a pull request!

Don’t be afraid to ask for advice before working on a contribution. If you’re thinking about a bigger change, especially that might affect the core working or architecture, it’s almost essential to talk and ask about what you’re planning might affect things.  Some of the larger future plans may not be documented well so it’s difficult to understand how your change might affect the general direction and roadmap of this project without asking.

The preferred way to communicate is probably via Discord or GitHub issues.

Helpful information to understand the project can be found here: [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/OliveTin/OliveTin/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.adoc)

^^^ please delete the lines above when raising a PR to keep the request to the bare essentials ^^^

# Checklist
Please put a X in the boxes as evidence of reading through the checklist.

- [ ] I have read the [CONTRIBUTORS](CONTRIBUTORS.adoc) guide
  - [ ] I considered the "3 line" suggestion.
  - [ ] I followed the "1 logical change" rule.
- [ ] I have forked the project, and raised this PR on a feature branch.
- [ ] I ran the `pre-commit` hooks, and my commit message was validated.
- [ ] `make -wC service compile` runs without any issues.
- [ ] `make -wC service codestyle` runs without any issues.
- [ ] `make -wC service unittests` runs without any issues.
- [ ] `make -wC webui codestyle` runs without any issues.
- [ ] `make -w it` runs without any issues.
- [ ] I understand and accept the [AGPL-3.0 license](LICENSE) and [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md), and my contributions fall under these.
