CONTRIBUTING.adoc, before:

= Contributions

Contributions are very welcome - code, docs, whatever they might be! If this is
your first contribution to an Open Source project or you're a core maintainer
of multiple projects, your time and interest in contributing is most welcome.

If you're not sure where to get started, raise an issue in the project.

Ideas may be discussed, purely on their merits and issues. Our Code of Conduct
(CoC) is straightforward - it's important that contributors feel comfortable in
discussion throughout the whole process. This project respects the
link:https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/process/code-of-conduct.html[Linux Kernel code of conduct].

== If you're not sure, ask!

Don't be afraid to ask for advice before working on a
contribution. If you're thinking about a bigger change, especially that might
affect the core working or architecture, it's almost essential to talk and ask
about what you're planning might affect things. Some of the larger future plans may not be
documented well so it's difficult to understand how your change might affect
the general direction and roadmap of this project without asking.

The preferred way to communicate is probably via Discord or GitHub issues.

=== Dev environment setup and clean build

```
# Step1: setup compile env
# - Fedora
dnf install git go protobuf-compiler make -y
# - Windows with chocolatey
choco install git go protoc make python nodejs-lts -y

# Step2: clone and setup repo
git clone https://github.com/OliveTin/OliveTin.git
cd OliveTin
make githooks

# Step3: compile binary for current dev env (OS, ARCH)
# `make grpc` will also run `make go-tools`, which installs "buf". This binary
# will be put in your GOPATH/bin/, which should be on your path. buf is used to
# generate the protobuf / grpc stubs.
make grpc
make
./OliveTin
```

=== Getting started to contribute;

The project layout is reasonably straightforward;

* See the `Makefile` for common targets. This project was originally created on top of Fedora, but it should be usable on Debian/your faveourite distro with minor changes (if any).
* The API is defined in protobuf+grpc - you will need to `make grpc`.
* The Go daemon is built from the `cmd` and `internal` directories mostly.
* The webui is just a single page application with a bit of Javascript in the `webui` directory. This can happily be hosted on another webserver.

== Mechanics of submitting a pull request

When you are ready for a PR, please see the link:.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md[pull request template].

Commit message:

doc: CONTRIBUTING - add more guidelines

CONTRIBUTING.adoc, after:

= Contributions

Contributions are very welcome - code, docs, whatever they might be! If this is
your first contribution to an Open Source project or you're a core maintainer
of multiple projects, your time and interest in contributing is most welcome.

If you're not sure where to get started, raise an issue in the project.

Ideas may be discussed, purely on their merits and issues. Our Code of Conduct
(CoC) is straightforward - it's important that contributors feel comfortable in
discussion throughout the whole process. This project respects the
link:https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/process/code-of-conduct.html[Linux Kernel code of conduct].

== More than 3 lines - talk to someone first

If you're planning on making a change that's more than a 3 lines, please talk to someone first. This is so that you don't waste your time on something that might not be accepted. It's also a good way to get some feedback on your idea and make sure you're on the right track.

== A PR should be one logical change

Please try to keep your pull requests small and focused. It's almost impossible to review PRs that change lots of files for lots of different reasons. If you have a big change, it's probably best to break it down into smaller, more manageable chunks, otherwise it's likely to be rejected.

== If you're not sure, ask!

Don't be afraid to ask for advice before working on a
contribution. If you're thinking about a bigger change, especially that might
affect the core working or architecture, it's almost essential to talk and ask
about what you're planning might affect things. Some of the larger future plans may not be
documented well so it's difficult to understand how your change might affect
the general direction and roadmap of this project without asking.

The preferred way to communicate is probably via Discord or GitHub issues.

=== Dev environment setup and clean build

```
# Step1: setup compile env
# - Fedora
dnf install git go protobuf-compiler make -y
# - Windows with chocolatey
choco install git go protoc make python nodejs-lts -y

# Step2: clone and setup repo
git clone https://github.com/OliveTin/OliveTin.git
cd OliveTin
make githooks

# Step3: compile binary for current dev env (OS, ARCH)
# `make grpc` will also run `make go-tools`, which installs "buf". This binary
# will be put in your GOPATH/bin/, which should be on your path. buf is used to
# generate the protobuf / grpc stubs.
make grpc
make
./OliveTin
```

=== Getting started to contribute;

The project layout is reasonably straightforward;

* See the `Makefile` for common targets. This project was originally created on top of Fedora, but it should be usable on Debian/your faveourite distro with minor changes (if any).
* The API is defined in protobuf+grpc - you will need to `make grpc`.
* The Go daemon is built from the `cmd` and `internal` directories mostly.
* The webui is just a single page application with a bit of Javascript in the `webui` directory. This can happily be hosted on another webserver.

== Mechanics of submitting a pull request

When you are ready for a PR, please see the link:.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md[pull request template].
